HIDSporb, the open-source Win32 HID Minidriver for the Spacetec Spaceorb 360

The Spacetec Spaceorb 360 is an outstanding 3d game controller which
supports six axes and six physical buttons on an intuitive game
device. It is a great deal of fun to use and was my favorite
controller for first-person shooters for years. 

Unfortunately, Spacetec fell by the wayside and the orb itself was
unsupported for years. When Microsoft operating systems moved toward
the WDM model for drivers, Spaceorb users knew they were in trouble;
when Windows 2000 and XP required WDM drivers, we were simply out of
luck--there was no support for the mighty orb. 

After perusing some sample source code for windows drivers in fall of
2001, I decided that it might be possible to write a HID minidriver
which would represent the Spaceorb as a HID-compatible gaming device;
a few months and several hundred blue-screen-of-death reboots later, I
was able to play Half-life with the orb... and any other game which
supported DirectInput gaming devices followed suit. From suggestions
garnered by testers of the driver, we added several features; in some
ways the HIDSporb driver is actually more powerful than even the
original Spacetec driver: 

    * Completely redefinable axis maps, allowing any physical axis to
      control any logical axis

    * Togglable "Chording", allowing two buttons on the orb to select
      logical pages for the other four buttons, allowing the orb's six
      physical buttons to represent up to sixteen logical buttons

    * Selectable gain and sensitivity on each physical axis
      independently, allowing the user to tune the orb's response on
      any axis to their liking

    * Complete user-definable response curves, so that motivated users
      can completely define the response of an axis

    * "Precision mode" which allows the user to select a different
      response curve for axes when a button is pressed, allowing for
      spectacular precision when necessary combined with rapid motion
      when precision is not necessary


More features (such as keyboard or mouse emulation) or support for
more devices may be added in the future depending on how our time
permits.  The hidsporb driver is entirely a volunteer project.  It is
hosted on sourceforge.net, with the home page 

http://hidsporb.sourceforge.net

The authors have spent a considerable amount of time and effort on the
driver, and our testers have spent a considerable amount of time and
effort making sure it works correctly.  What you do with it now is of
interest to us all.

Victor B. Putz
vputz@nyx.net
